# PropTrackr
This is the group project for Agile Software Development


-> MTAT.03.295 Agile Software Development
## Project Assignment

In a remote town where buying and selling property relied on word-of-mouth and outdated paper trails, a group of visionary entrepreneurs saw a unique opportunity to revolutionize the market. Sensing a chance to streamline the real estate business. Eager to make a profit out of any situation, a group of young entrepreneurs have teamed up and concluded that what the world truly needs is... a smart and innovative solution for property management! After having easily created a new start-up, this group of daring masterminds decided to jump into the market with PropTrackr: Track. Manage. Succeed, a cutting-edge web application that will simplify the complexities of real estate business. The company's CEO, in an astute strategy to make real estate business hassle-free, has come up with the brilliant idea of engaging your team to implement a marvelous application for the real estate business. You won't get paid, but you are learning in the process, so we guess everyone should be happy with it.

## Description
A real estate platform like PropTrackr offers the possibility to rent, buy, or sell residential properties in Estonia. Ideally, users will be able to search for available properties (either to rent or buy) without the need to register. For registered users, the application will offer the possibility to post advertisements (either to rent or sell) and save available ones as favorites. The system must handle the logic behind these interactions, allowing the users to perform such operations in a comfortable and intuitive way.

After a thorough analysis of the market, potential clients, and competitors, PropTrackr has decided to give it a try and enter the ruthless world of real estate. They have already studied the optimal strategies and best designs to ensure their users' happiness. However, due to their horrible management skills, the most important part is still missing: the application to support this whole idea.

In order to minimize the costs, your team is asked to implement the web application that will lead them to the top of the real estate world. As the owners of PropTrackr are really busy people, they have prepared a description of the requirements of the application that constitute the Minimum Viable Product (MVP). The objective of the project is to build a system that fulfills all these requirements, plus two additional features that you have to propose. The selection of the additional features is up to the team, but they must be negotiated with the customer’s representative (i.e., your assigned teacher).

### Users:
    The system allows users to self-register, log in, log out (with authentication), and change their passwords.
    A registered user can also delete their account and all the data associated with it.
    Each user must be saved with their basic information, which can be edited afterward. This information should contain, at least, their full name, date of birth, phone number, and brief text description about them.
    Unauthenticated users can search for properties.
    Additionally to this, authenticated users can also save advertisements to their "favorites" list, manage (create/update/delete) advertisements of their own properties, and visualize both lists of their own advertisements and their favorite ones.
### Advertisements:
    Advertisements must have, at least, the following information: title, picture(s) of the property, a textual description, type (rent/sell), price, square meters, location (at least, county and city area), number of rooms, floor and total floors in the building if not an entire house, advertisement reference (autogenerated), state (available/sold), owner, contact button.
    The owner of an advertisement can mark its state as "available", "reserved", or "sold/rented" without having to enter the "update advertisement" stage (this means, directly from the "own advertisements" list).
    When creating an advertisement, the system computes its recommended price based on its characteristics. For this, it will search the database for properties with similar characteristics (at least, surface, number of rooms, and area), and compute their average price. The owner can click on a button when creating/updating the advertisement to consult this recommendation.
### Property search:
    A user can search for properties by selecting, at least, type (rent/sale) and location (county).
    The results can be filtered by specifying, at least, a price range, number of rooms range, and city area(s).
    A logged-in user can mark an advertisement as "not interested", which moves it to the end of the result list.
    The logged-in user can unmark the "not interested" option to set the advertisement as normal again.
    Sold/rented properties are kept in the database (unless the owner deletes the advertisement), but not shown in the search result.
    In the list of results, available properties are shown before reserved ones.
    Thus, the list of advertisements shows first the available properties not marked as "not interested", then the reserved properties not marked as "not interested", then the available properties marked as "not interested", and finally the reserved properties marked as "not interested".
    The user can click on an advertisement from the list and visualize it.
    When visualizing an available advertisement, a user can click on the "contact" button that will show the owner's phone number.
    When visualizing an available advertisement, the user can consult the recommended price of that property (same computation as for the owner).
    When visualizing an available advertisement, the user can click on the owner profile, and visualize their profile data (including a list of their advertised properties). Only profiles with properties for sale/rent can be visualized (i.e., the data of a user without advertisement cannot be accessed).
    When visualizing an advertisement, the system should show, in a section on one side of the page, a list with 5 recommended properties. To compute this, the system must calculate a similarity measure between the opened advertisement and each other advertisement in the database, and show the 5 most similar ones. For the similarity measure, at least the price, number of rooms, and surface should be used.
    Advertisements in any list (search, favorites, owner profile, etc.) can be clicked to view their details.
### Favorites & Past searches
    A logged-in user can also click on the "favorite" button to add it to their favorites. The sold/rented advertisements will not be shown in the favorites list.
    Of course, a logged-in user can also unmark a "favorite" advertisement.
    The system must store the last 5 searches of a logged-in user, and allow the user to click on any of them to directly go to the result list.
### General
    The home page must always show the account access (log in or log out and account details), and a search box for users to directly search for advertisements from there.
    Logged-in users must be able to access the list of their own advertisements, the list of their favorite advertisements, and the list of past searches always with one click (e.g., having a tab for each section).
    The system must use secure authentication protocols such as encrypting the passwords, and not allowing unauthorized users to visualize the data of other users.


## Steps to Set Up the Project:

Create the Database: docker compose up -d

Install Dependencies: mix deps.get 

Run Migrations: mix ecto.migrate 

Note: If you encounter an error during migration, such as:
"could not compile dependency :bcrypt_elixir, 'mix compile' failed",
you can temporarily comment out the following line in the mix.exs file: {:bcrypt_elixir, "~> 3.0"}

Seed the Database: mix setup 

Start the Server: mix phx.server


```
docker compose up -d
mix deps.get
mix ecto.migrate 
mix setup
mix phx.server
```

Access the Application: http://localhost:4000/ 


